[Music]
Hello, in part one of the video on the role of the director,
you saw how a director
creates a script and selects the shots.
In this part, we will learn how a
director selects a character and a shooting location.
Let's first see
how a director selects his character. What kind of crop should be planted for good manure?
Today I will tell you all about it.
Hey, cut cut cut, you have said a little bit in reverse.
Not crop for good manure, but
manure for good crop. Let's take action once again.
What kind of fertilizer should be planted for a good crop?
Today I will tell you all about it.
Very good, isn't it? What a
good dialogue you have spoken. Now let's say the next
action. Tell us something about the impact of climate change on our agriculture.
Now, you have spoken a very good dialogue,
but you had to speak this dialogue while looking at the camera.
Okay, and why are you so nervous?
You are doing so well.
Now, let's speak the second dialogue.
Action: A good character is the soul of the video.
While selecting a character, make sure
that his expressions, the way he speaks the dialogue, and the
speed of his speech are correct. Also, make
sure that he is in front of the camera.
Be comfortable since most of our actors are farmers,
it is not necessary that the farmer who
speaks well in common language will
also speak well in front of the camera, so
choose the character at least one or two days before the shooting, make him
practice with the script again and again,
this will increase his confidence and will
also save your time during the shooting. Also,
we should
give opportunity to men, women and all the people of the community to choose the character.
After this comes the
choice of location and its responsibility also lies with the director. The
location of the video shooting should
be according to your script. A
good location adds beauty to your video.
By good location we mean a
place which can
fulfill the demand and needs of our script.
You should always keep your location away from the road, school,
hospital, office, market or any public place,
otherwise noise will be heard in the sound of your video
and the
shooting will be interrupted due to the movement of people.
Try
not to keep your shooting place under a tree, otherwise the
sound of the video will also get spoiled due to strong wind.
While choosing the location, make sure that all the necessary things used in the video are present at that location.  We should also take care of the lighting at the shooting location.
During the shooting, whether the
characters will sit on the ground or on the ghat and
how much light will be there at that time, it should also be estimated whether there is
space to rotate the camera around the place where they will sit during recording or not. It should also be kept in mind whether the
owner of the place where the shooting is to be done should be informed about the date and time of the shooting
and his written
consent should also be
taken for the shooting. The work of finding the location should be done 4 days
before the shooting so that the script can be changed according to the location. The
director should always select the content, location and
character in collaboration with KV and the people working there. So in
this
way, you saw in this part how a
director
plays an important role in the selection of shooting location and character.
In the next part, we will know
what is the role of a director during shooting and editing. Thank you
[Music]